nothing is more stupid than a person who solves a problem without knowing context..

concept is not a function of time, syntax is.

does yesterday work today also.

commonly used functions, classes, annotation in java we should not assume we know it.
we should open documentation and get a view on it.. what official guy is telling.

we keep getting doubts so tolerate the uncertainty but definitely do a small poc to clarify
the doubt on syntax or concept.

x- class which contains main
x.controller
x.service
x.doa
x.model

I have a standard and no product adhers to the standard.. that means standard is useless.

always do bad things by telling good things..
example till yesterday we had a constructor which takes no arguments..
so everybody code was working
today I got a "brilliant" idea and removed that constructor and put  a constructor with arguments.
then yesterday code will fail today...


SOLID principles of class design..


1. architecture was decided already...
2. we told spring hey create the object and wire it.
3. since we know which is start... we implemnteed commandline runner and asked
hey give me the presentation object. can I get service object yes, can i get dao object yes..
why.. we are "conscious" of what objects spring has got.


dont be bothered about which object is getting created first.. see whether wiring is happening
properly or not.

being a programmer needs patience than intelligence.
being a design.. you need intelligence and then patience..
design the plus always comes with a minus..

as a programmer it is very important to keep the cost of failure low..

in any architecture people who write poems will create misery for themselves and others..

i think it is to better always call a function and then define it
rather than define a function and think where to call it.

hey I am using spring boot or spring code.
1. show me some class, some interface , some function of spring boot used in the code..

I am using spring boot annotations, but i am not using any spring boot related class
or function in my code.. do you feel the spring boot annotations will work 


hands on
1. mutualfund scenario == core java application == convert that into spring boot.
2. archcode.. == try to understand the application = convert this into spring boot 
3. accscenario and taskscenario.. that should also work in spring boot..

once this we know is working.. we will deal one more layer in architecture web services.
later we will add a dao layer..
reflection looks like in a project.

1. we should how to resolve conflicts..
we are telling inside A autowire B,but spring has got two B objects with it, 
2. scope of the object..
when we tell spring hey give me the A object, it will give same A object .. singleton..
we can change it..
3. profile..

Web services.. Rest API ... Distributed computing..

why we should write a web service..

1. to make my service function usable to other people who use different programming language.

I wrote my adding of two numbers in java..
I want the python calls to guy call it or .net guys to call it.. then preferred way is to wrap
the adding of two numbers of java into a web service..

once write a web service, the call id distributed..

why webservice.
0. standard.
0.1 http or its cousins.
0.2 JSON -- Data format..
1. we want distributed computing.
2. we want people writing code in different langauges to call our service function.


web service
important word is service and then the web..

I want to write a web servie.

1. is your service function working. are you clear what is your service return type
what is its input argument...

web in web service.
1. http and its related usage.

service function == business logic == company revenue..


standards keep evolving based on need. once upon a time distributed computing

1. CORBA
2. 2000 to 2004 to 2010 -- SOAP




anybody who cannot relate any concept finally to variables and functions
the concept is not worth knowing.. programming goes.


what is json..

1. a standard to represent variables.

int f1(char c)
int, char are data types... json can be used to represent variables and its data type in a standardized
way...

standardized way... python agrees, java agrees, so does javascript. so does .net..

I am dealing with json..
1. as what input or output.

what is web service.
1. a standard to do distributed computing using http related things..
2. it uses json standard or xml to represent variables..

I want to write a web service.

1. is your service working..
2. no forget the web service


web serice function
will called as a part of http request processing.

service function
programmer only has to call it.


1. spring boot project == get clarity on architecture, clarity on models, clarity on service.
2. spring boot project with database = get clarity on dao, solve my problem on database.. 
3. spring boot web project == solve my problems on http...
4. integrate 1 to 3..
5. add cloud entertainment, unit testing.. microservices. some other legacy...

when a java person gets a doubt, he should have the courage of creating a new package..atleast
I am afraid of people who write poems...

when we write a web service, we are using http ok... but we are not building presentation.

browser is for http based presentations and not for checking web services..
i want to check whether web service works..  good bad tool , postman.. good tool which is becoming bad is
insomnia..

I am using http for what

1. web applcaition for presentation   -- browser is great.. react, spring thymeleaf, jsf, jsp..
if web application.. function returns view + model = it is a presentation
account statement + html or pdf == web based presentation


2. web application for web services..  -- insomnia.. swagger.. postman..
it returns only model == web service
account statement details == web service..


web services.

1. we know the theory..
2. we know what is input needed for service fnction and what is return type.
service function input is X type and return type is Y type.
3. we will create a new class whose functions will be web services functions.
but these function input now will be  X and return type will be Y only.

shorts cuts of violating architecture  == sin... 



I want to write web service.

1. which function of service, do you want to write a web service for.
TaskStatus add(Task task);

2. we will write a  new class.. which will contains functions. these
functions will process http reqest. hence called web services functions.

TaskStatus webserviceadd(I will read input from http request Task task)
{

return TaskStatus bject s http response..


}


can we generalize our learning..

hey whatever functions we write in the Webservices class ie class which uses teh annotation
called RestController are functions which we are not going to call system is going to cal
under a particular circumstance.

1. if you have a function which gets called only under a particular circumsntance ==Event handling
function.. for any event handling function, we should register.. 






1. know your input and return type for service function for which
you plan to write a web service.

2. in a new class which can handle http requests.. @RestController on the class.
write a function input and return type matches the service function..
ensure input is read from http request.
ensure output is sent via http response

1. complete the mutualfund scenario where dao implementation has a map.. ( later we will replace this db)
2. create new spring boot project only with web dependency. just see whether it works..



Hope we are comfortable why web services and what json does..

we want to convert our accountscenario into  web services functions == ghost..

1. we have some function f1 in accountscenario service.
2. we want to write a function called f2 in web services, which will call f1 .
f2 function is a event driven, it will get called due to some http event.
its input will be picked up from http request
the output will be sent as the http response.

assume we wrote the web service function
how did we check the web service function.. using postman or insomnia.. ok..but in real life
what it means some other person has written a code in python or in c++ which will call the
web services function or in short he will make a http request using some library..

somebody wrote a web service function in python  ==defined the function
I want to call it from java... caller.. 
I should pick up a java data type which will help in making http requests..

rule no of 1 web service function

1. prove when request is made, function is getting called.
2. we are able to read input parameters from http request.
3. prove whatever response we are giving is got by the client.
	

if you want to identify something then use pathvariable
and get to subset from the identification use query parameters.


@component == superset
@servcie == subset of component, decent name to tell you are talking about a serive layer function..


I want spring to create object of service.. instead of @component consider using @service
no I will use @component only ok go head and use it no difference..

in dao layer use @Repository.. are you doing real dao stuff talking with database yes.. 
then stick with @repository and not use @component...

1. core java.
2. enabled with spring boot without web service..
3. once we know 2 is working then we started considering web service

people who tell i will do 3, figure out 2 and then figure out 1, all the best..

I am in the controller function, i have issues with reading input properly..
and I have issues setting http header.s.... some issues with respect to http.

1. dont touch service.. service is getting 
2. focus only on the controller without being botherd about did reach i service


controller should return httpstatus code + content...

= ResponseEntity..this is a class.. 

ok i have int, now i have responsentity
with int  , i +1, i*3; ,, 

I want to create an object of class X, X is not mine.. then first decency is look at constructors
than doing astrology on the code..

ResponseEntity r =new REsponseEntity();//enertainment ..


whoever is calling the web service..

callWebservice.ifsuccess(do something).failure("do something");


service layer should always be presentation independent..

tie service layer with http.. without http dont touch service layer.. ==birth of a poet..

Reflection

1. we have some X with us.
2. we cannot see X directly.
3. we want to know something about X.
4. so what we do is show X to a mirror.
5. thru the mirror try to know about X.
6. based on what we know, take some actions..


we == frameworks
X == object or class programmer have created.
frameworks cannot see into X directly..
show X to a mirror == get a Class class object for the X
thru the Class class object try to find out whether some annotation is used, some function is defined..
once it knows some annotation is used.. then do something, if annotation is not used then o something else..


ask chatgpt to generate a spring boot web services without database and using some datastructures
for storing data.. in financial domain..

taskscneario.. write a controller function for atleast 2 things.. in service..












Lamda expressions.. stream, filter...












