today story is very simple

lot of terminologies but you should refuse the terminologies and see how
well you can generalize..

practicals.. lot of code given to you make it work.. no challenge of syntax
today...


day 1.

1. loyalty towards architecture
2. interface--do we know what will change, what will not change in the project
3. function design is very important... 5/5 in functions and 5/5 in variables.
4. folder structure.....it means he will know where things are configured..


day 2.
1. spring .. inversion of control, dependency injection.. process
we can write each layer independently...
2. web services.. concept..
http for presentation  ==w eb application for presentation = angular ..
http for communicating..calling some function  == web service
json... standard for data type representation..
distributed..

day 3.
 trust is never a great word in science


using the object == calling non static functions.. only then object will created
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

database layer...

1. we have various strategies, companies prefer.. but usual story prefer something
which is easy for programmer to code.. then programmer focus on service.. that means
we use 
ORM  -- expand it .. Object RElational Mapping.
what is it? language independent..
Object == classes object.
Relation ==tables we map classes and tables.. and use the framework functions
to interact with the database...


DAO layer.. key thing is learn some basic things about the database..
why database.. physical and logical independence of data..
alter the table,, old data is not lost.


database.
table
view
index
stored procedure
trigger..


JPA
Hibernate..

MyBatis..

you havae to configure the database.. this is important, but can be project independent most
of times or atleast project specific and not programmer specific..

before somebody joins the project tell you have to ask questions, based on the questions
you will allowed to join the project?








I want to work on dao...

0. check whether databse is accessible independently.
1. come to application.properties and configure the databse.


@Entity.. it means this class is mapped to some table..
you need a primary key
no I want to mention constraints ok, mention.
no I will tell non static variablename is x in my class, and column name in the table is y
ok do it.. learn new annotations..

tools, language, process all try to make the stupid programmer intelligent
but stupid programmer has his own sense of determinedness.. which cannot be helped.

when will you get one row in a query -- query on primary key
when will you get multiple rows in a query  query on non primary key will lead multiple rows..


x+spring =  x becomes easier  secretly spring is telling dont leave me use me always == get addicted to me..

1. insert
2. update
3. single select.
4. multi select.


when multiple tables then challenge is 
1. foreign key will come..
2. cascading will come
so next what...
learn new annotations.. 

when it comes to mapping between multiple tables
1. first judge the relationship... one to one, one to many, many to one..
2. see how are you mentioning the non static variable.. of the class.
3. see how you are mentioning the column of the table,.. foreign key...


somebody tells i have 

class A and class B

B changes class A should not get impacted,,
interface between class A and class B.

1. you can wire different objects based on profile..
2. class A needs wiring of B.. but two B objects are present with spring, how can spring
choose.. answer is you can use annotation called @primary...


@Bean
1. it is used on function.
2. we are telling spring hey I am going to create the object, ie programmer will create 
the object.
3. telling spring hey take this object and you use it for wiring..

@component.
1. who creates the object == spring.
2. who is using it for wiring =spring.

@Bean
1. who creates the object = programmer.
2. who is using it for wiring =spring.


1.
based on profile using different objects for wiring is a common need in project.
2. suppose there is ambiguity .. we can resolve it by using @primary or ...

treat this like a test.. uncertainty.. which database .. i leave it you..


fidelity\assingments\codesamples in this folder.
code samples , try to make it work.. 
a01..
a02
a04..
a12..
a13..
this files code it and check whether it works..

break for lunch and we will join back at 2.00PM.
























